=head1 NAME

Overview of the EPS NS system and documentation

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This document gives an overview of the EPS NS systems and links to various
documents of further interest.

=head1 Overview

The EPS-NS system comprises three major components

=over

=item * B<EPS NS API> The back-end Application Program Interface

=item * B<EPS NS Middleware Admin> The administration system for the API

=item * B<EPS NS Portal> The Front end Application program that uses the API to
administer Consoles, Users and Groups

=back

These three components are described in greater detail elsewhere (see links below).

=head2 EPS NS API

The B<EPS NS API> (also refered to from now as the B<API> provides a RESTful
L<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Restful> interface to methods to Read, Update,
Modify and Delete entries on the LDAP back-end servers.

The B<API> can be accessed by any programming language able to issue HTTP requests.

The API has a B<content centric middleware> layer that ensures that data is read from
the correct LDAP servers and is written back to all LDAP servers that require the
data.

Further information can be found at X<pod/api_overview.pod>.

=head2 EPS NS Portal

The B<Portal> is a web application which currently has the functionality to administer
B<Consoles> B<Users> and B<Groups> and which uses the B<API> to carry out these
operations.

It is expected that the Portal will be extended to provide the ability to administer
other LDAP entities.

=head2 EPS NS Middleware Admin

The B<Middleware Admin> is a Catalyst web application that can update the database
which controls the API Middleware. This database controls which LDAP server items
of data are read from and which LDAP servers the data is written back to on updates.

The Admin system can also specify simple attributes for each data item such as whether
or not the data is read-only, is mandatory and whether it is a string or an integer.
(it would be possible in the future to also specify simple data validation rules on
the items).

=head1 AUTHOR

Ian Docherty

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright (c) 2001-2011 Nomura Holdings, Inc. All rights reserved.

=cut
1;

